-------------- Beam-Focusing Tool --------------- Lukas Hunold 13.01.2020 - V2.2

This tool helps you to calculate and plot the intensity distribution of a
focused Gaussian beam (for other input beam shapes you might want to modify the
Fcts.py file manually). It is based on numerical integration using the angular
spectrum representation, as discussed in detail in [1].

You can get the 2D distribution along z and r for a given polar angle phi by
pressing the 'Calculate 2D Focus' button and the intensities only along z (r=0)
by pressing the 'Calculate Axial Focus' button.

Once you did that the calculation starts and will be monitored in the terminal.
When it is finished you will see a marker in the 'Calculations done' field.
Now you can use the plot buttons to show the results. There are also two fit
buttons, that provide additional information about the focus along z (position
and FWHM), which can be interesting if you focus into a medium.

You can save the intensity distribution and fit parameters to .txt files by
pressing the 'Save Results' button. If you want to calculate the focus again,
you can do so. Changes of the parameters in the parameter window will be applied
immediately.

You can change a bunch of parameters for the calculation, including:

- IOR 1: Index of refraction of the medium surrounding the focusing objective.
         Typically you will use 1 for air. In principle n>1 for oil immersion
         can be used, but you will have trouble with the NA, as discussed later.
         Make sure that 1 < IOR1 < IOR2, otherwise strange results can occur.

- IOR 2: Index of refraction of the medium to be focused in.
         Notice that the medium is assumed to be dielectric and the beam is
         assumed to be perpendicular to the surface of that medium.

- NA   : Numerical aperture of the focusing objective.
         The program can only handle 0 < NA < 1. So oil immersion objectives
         can not be simulated properly. Notice that the program will crash for
         any NA >= 1 due to diverging integrals, so please avoid these inputs.

- WD   : Working distance of the objective.
         Can be interesting for comparison, but does not effect the calculation.

- f0   : Filling factor of the objective (beam size / aperture size).
         Any value > 0 can be used here, very high values (> 100) will
         effectively result in a plane wave input beam.
         Notice that the peak intensity will be reduced for high f0, since lots
         of intensity is not coupled to the objective.

- WL   : Wavelength of the focused laser.
         Any value > 0 can be used, but the IOR should be modified accordingly.
         Be careful with absorption of the medium in the chosen wavelength
         regime. This is not taken into account in the calculations.

- P    : Used laser power before the objective.
         Just scales the peak intensity accordingly.

- phi  : Polar angle chosen for calculation of 2D intensity distribution.
         (e.g. phi = 0 calculates in the x-z-plane, phi = pi/2 in the x-y-plane)

- z0   : Distance of former focus from the interface position.
         Assuming there is no medium present, the focus will be at the WD of the
         objective. If you now introduce a medium with its front surface placed
         a distance z0 away from that focus position, the focus position will
         change due to diffraction and the program calculates this new focus.
         Make sure that z0 < 0 and z min > z0, since the program can not anymore
         calculate the field outside the medium, once you introduced one!

The other parameters are to set the minimum, maximum and number of steps
simulated for r, z, z0.



[1] "Principles of Nano-Optics" (Novotny), p.56-66 and p.73-78
